.TH DSSH 1 "2016-02-21" "" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
.NM dssh
.ND Distributed SSH Tool
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------------"/.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dssh
[-aAcpqy]
[\-f\ host_file...]
[\-i\ id_file]
[\-l\ host-list...]
[\-o\ ssh_opts]
[\-u\ username]
[\-s\ timeout]
[-t\ max_threads]
.I command
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dssh
is a simple utility for executing commands across several hosts via ssh.
Commands may be executed in parallel or sequentially, and a variety of
formatting and output options are supported.
.P
Remote hosts for command execution are specified by file(s), lists on the
command line, or hostnames piped from standard input. Whitespace is used to
distinguish between hosts. A connection is made to each host via ssh and the
user-defined
.I command
is executed.
.P
While the basic functionality provided by
.B dssh
can be mimicked with a few lines of shell script, additional features such as
limiting the number of active threads, output collection/formatting, and
colorization are supported.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "\-a"
Enable 'active' printing of ssh output instead of buffering it until the
command completes. Since this may result in interleaved outputs from multiple
hosts, the remote hostname is prepended to each output line.
.TP
.B "\-A"
Enable active printing with abbreviated hostnames, where only the first part of
the name is shown (up to the first '.' character). Useful for long hostnames.
.TP
.B "\-c"
Enable colorized output. Automatically disabled if stdout is not a terminal.
.TP
.BI "\-i"\ id_file
Selects an identity file containing a private key to use for authentication.
.TP
.BI "\-o"\ ssh_opts
Adds options to be passed through to the ssh command line. Options should be
quoted to avoid confusing the dssh option parser.
.TP
.B "\-p"
Executes remote commands in parallel, with each remote connection launched on a
separate thread (no thread limit). By default, output is buffered and printed
after the command completes unless active printing
.B (-a)
is used.
.TP
.B "\-q"
Quiet output mode; silences extra output, such as hostnames and extra newlines.
Error messages will still be displayed.
.TP
.BI "\-u"\ username
Authenticate using a different name than the current user.
.TP
.BI "\-s"\ timeout
Configures how long to wait (in seconds) before timing out remote connections.
.TP
.BI "\-t"\ num_threads
Limits the number of threads used during parallel execution (implies -p).
.TP
.B "\-y"
.SH EXIT STATUS
.SH ENVIRONMENT
DSSH_HOSTS variable
.SH AUTHOR
Matthew Malensek <matt@malensek.net>
.br
http://sigpipe.io/dssh
